The most interesting part of this opening line (the first sentence in a seven book series, with each book getting progressively larger and more complex for the most part) is that it has nothing to do with our title character and (now) culturalicon, Harry Potter. Instead, the opening of Harry Potter deals exclusively with two minor characters - the Dursleys, Harry's aunt Petunia and uncle Vernon who adopt him after his parents' death at the hands of the evil wizard Voldemort.

Even more striking is that Rowling keeps this pattern in several of the following books - a few of them (like Half-Blood Prince, which begins with a chapter about Snape), will start with the POV of a character that's not Harry. One of the books even focuses on Voldemort's killing of a muggle groundskeeper. These excursions outside the main POV of the series (I would say about 95% of the series is from a third person limited POV - Harry's) help move the plot along for the most part or give the reader information that the characters don't know to heighten the dramatic tension.

Here, the opening line, though, is played mostly for humor and tone. The Dursleys, in the opening books, are often the butt of jokes, with Petunia fawning of her fat and pathetic son Dudley (just look at his name!) and Vernon having aversion to anything from the imagination, even if the magic (like mail-delivering owls or a flying motorcycle) is right in front of his face. Furthermore, he's basically trapped his nephew into a horrible existence (Harry lives in a cupboard under the stairs).

In the later books, Harry's relationship to the Dursleys is transformed, with revelations from Dumbledore about why he lived with the Dursleys in the first place and why his aunt Petunia hates magic. Because, unlike what this first line would have us believe, Petunia knows very well that magic exists - she knew exactly what her sister was. And she even wanted to be a witch, too.

In fact, the Dursley have little to no plot points attached to them throughout the series, besides housing Harry for the summer. But Petunia and Vernon become the antithesis of Harry's belief in himself and in his friends - he believes, like his parents who were able to defeat Voldemort with their loving sacrifices, in the power of love and kindness.

Love is its own kind of strange and mysterious magic, no? In other words, this sentence is actually already beginning the entire serie's theme: love and belief can conquer anything.